Hello!

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://sprout.seedcase-project.org/">
        <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout/main/_extensions/seedcase-project/seedcase-theme/logos/navbar-logo-seedcase-sprout.svg" alt="Link to Sprout website" height="150"/>
    </a>
</p>

## seedcase-sprout: Grow structured, organised, and usable data

[![PyPI
Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/seedcase-sprout)](https://pypi.org/project/seedcase-sprout/)
[![GitHub
Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout)](https://github.com/seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout/releases/latest)
[![OpenSSF
Scorecard](https://api.scorecard.dev/projects/github.com/seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout/badge)](https://scorecard.dev/viewer/?uri=github.com/seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout)
[![Build
package](https://github.com/seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout/actions/workflows/build-package.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout/actions/workflows/build-package.yml)
[![Build
documentation](https://github.com/seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout/actions/workflows/build-website.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout/actions/workflows/build-website.yml)
[![CodeQL](https://github.com/seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout/actions/workflows/github-code-scanning/codeql/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout/actions/workflows/github-code-scanning/codeql)
[![pre-commit.ci
status](https://results.pre-commit.ci/badge/github/seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout/main.svg)](https://results.pre-commit.ci/latest/github/seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout/main)
[![code
coverage](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout/coverage/coverage.svg?raw=true)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout/coverage/index.html)
[![lifecycle](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/figures/lifecycle-experimental.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html#experimental)

Sprout is one component of the [Seedcase
Project](https://seedcase-project.org) framework that aims to take data
created or collected for research studies and "grow" it in a structured
way using modern data engineering best practices. Sprout is designed to
organise, describe, and store data for effective discovery, management,
and analysis.

Check out our [website](https://sprout.seedcase-project.org/) for more
information, such as an
[overview](https://sprout.seedcase-project.org/docs/overview/), how to
use it [guide](https://sprout.seedcase-project.org/docs/guide/), or to
read about the
[design](https://sprout.seedcase-project.org/docs/design/). For a list
of changes, see our
[changelog](https://sprout.seedcase-project.org/docs/releases/) page.

## Installing

Seedcase Sprout can be installed in two ways. The first is to install it
as a user, and the second is to install it as a contributor.

To install Sprout for general use, see our [Installation
Guide](https://sprout.seedcase-project.org/docs/guide/installation).

## Contributing

If you would like to contribute, please check out our
[guidebook](https://guidebook.seedcase-project.org/) for more specific
details on how we work and develop. It is a regularly evolving document,
so is at various states of completion.

To install Sprout to contribute, you first need to install
[uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) and
[justfile](https://just.systems/man/en/packages.html). We use uv and
justfile to manage our project, such as to install development
dependencies. Both uv and justfile website have a more detailed guide on
using uv, but below are some simple instructions to get you started.

To install uv, run:

``` bash
pipx install uv
```

Then, open a terminal so that the working directory is the root of this
project (`seedcase-sprout/`) and run:

``` bash
just install-deps
```

## Re-use

This project is licensed under the [MIT
License](https://github.com/seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout/blob/main/LICENSE.md).

<!-- TODO: Include citation information here after upload to Zenodo -->
